In this huge world of Python
we have so many things to cover,
but we have covered
quite a lot about the Python.
Now I want to introduce you
something which is built in.
We don't have to write
anything for this.
This actually kind
of exists in Python.
We don't pay huge attention to this,
but we should be paying to this one.
So let me take you on the screen
and directly walk you through
that, what I'm talking about.
So this is a direct documentation
page that says built in functions.
So Python has so many things
which we can use directly.
The Python interpret has a number
of functions and built
in types that are always available.
They are listed here
in alphabetical order.
Not only that, some
of the functions which you define
also comes up with the by default
some of the tricks and tips.
So I'll show you what
actually it means.
So we'll just talk about
the built ins in Python.
So I'll just write this here.
Hopefully I'm here.
Yep, we are actually
on the right track.
So let's go ahead and talk about
built ins in Python and I
think it would be rather accurate
to call it as built in.
Just like that.
Yeah, this is actually fun.
So every single function which
you go ahead and define.
So let's just say we have a simple
function name and we
go ahead and design it like this
and simply say pass.
So this is the bare minimum
function we are defining.
Let's actually go ahead and write
the code along with this.
Actually that will
make much more sense.
And I'll close this one
and create a new function.
This time we are on 12,
so 12 underscore.
Let's call this one as built in py
so let's just say we define a built
in or a very basic function.
The first step is let's just
say we have a chai flavor.
Hope I wrote that correct.
And this time we are simply
saying that the flavor that we
have is going to be masala.
So we'll put provide a default
parameter to this one.
By default I mean you can provide
the value that will overwrite it,
but if you don't provide any, this
will be the default value for it.
And end of the day I go
ahead and simply say whatever
the flavor you tell me,
I'll just return it back.
This is a basic one, but actually
you can do something interesting.
The very first line in your function
definition can be triple quotes.
Yeah notice here, triple quotes.
This is also a thing in which we are
going to use it a lot in which you
can add enters and line breaks.
And you can define it
however you like.
This one what it does it return
the flavor of Chai.
That's all it does.
Now this small string,
just by adding it.
Now you can utilize so many internal
things in the Python itself.
For example, if I just go
ahead and print this chai flavor,
I can actually use a dot
just on the function name.
And you can see so many things,
annotations built in, class
closure, so many of them.
Of course we cannot go with all
of them, but there is a small name
for this known as dunder.
Very, very funny
name to go with that.
At least I find it funny.
The whole point of this dunder
is you have one underscore, then
you have another underscore.
And then the things like
for example, we have doc as one
of the dunder, then we have also
underscore, underscore.
So instead of calling it as doc,
we just call it as dunderdoc.
Yeah, so two underscores are called
as dunder, but we don't call it
as like underscore, Dunder, dog,
Dunder, we just call it once.
Yeah, very weird.
So one of them is actually
this doc, what it does.
I'll show you that in a second.
But also there is another
dunder that you can use.
So there is underscore,
underscore name for it.
Let me show you what
each of them does.
It's very super easy actually.
Python 3 and please run the 12 file.
And there we go.
The first, when you say doc,
this is a doc string, documentation
function string or
function documentation string or
short is better doc string.
So this is a doc string
which actually prints.
So whatever you write it
here, it will get printed.
What if I go ahead
and declare a variable?
For example, chai is, ginger,
ginger, Something like this.
Will it work after this?
Here's the interesting part.
Now notice here it says none.
So it needs to be the very first
line and whatever you want
to do, you can do after that.
Feel free to do it.
It needs to be the very
first line and then only
and only then it works.
All right.
And then the name of the function,
notice here it says chai flavor.
So whatever the function you
are actually running, you
can just provide its name.
Why would I do that?
I already know the name of it.
Yes, you do.
But sometimes when you are
debugging the application, it's
not easy to find that what actually
is causing the trouble.
Now, not only that, we have actually
more inbuilt function.
For example, there is one help
which is always there and you
can pass on anything to it.
For example, I don't know
what the len does so I just want
to know more about it.
I can just go ahead and pass
on this and any function in between.
Notice here it gives you a whole lot
of documentation and all that.
It's not easy to read it here
because it's actually vim based.
I don't expect you to work on that.
Just press the Q in case you have
accidentally opened this up.
The better way to learn and study
about all of these method is
actually this documentation.
So built in function just
search for that version.
Doesn't really matter.
They are very standard
in every single version.
And notice so many of them.
There's absolute, there's
all and nobody knows
what all of them does.
We actually find them out
as we need some of them.
For example filter.
Yes, we have seen one of them.
Format frozen set, min max Next.
Some of them we definitely
encounter day to day life.
Some of them we never
encounter and some of them
we don't want to use.
Remember we used the zip?
Yep, that's exactly.
That's where this is coming up from.
We have tuple type.
Remember we use type once.
Yeah, I hope you do.
So this is the basics
of how it can be done.
Now make sure a couple of things
you need to take care of it.
The first one is it's always a good
idea that if you're writing
too big of a function on everything,
just write the documentation
of function right up here.
It's actually super easy to be done.
It's a good practice as well.
So again there's nothing too
much but try to give it yourself
a couple of more minutes if
you're writing production ready app
that actually does this.
I'll show you a sample example
of how it actually looks just
to make sure that you get an idea.
I'll be little bit exaggerating it
but we'll get the point of it.
Let's just say I go ahead and create
a method which says generate bill
which takes chai if nobody gives
me I'll take zero as a default.
Also snack which is samosa
which will also be zero.
There we go.
Now I take my time
by triple quotes to actually write
the documentation and you don't have
to write it all one line.
Once you start with this then I
can go ahead and go all freehand.
So what it does, it actually
goes ahead and calculate the total
bill for chai and samosa.
And then I can use and say like this,
what are the param?
This is just for me.
Pram chai.
And that is number of chai cups.
And for example, that
would be 10 rupees each.
These are just for me.
And I can go ahead and say I have
another param which is samosa.
Samosa and which goes like
number of samosa.
And that can be 15 rupees each.
Again, you don't have to use
this format, but it's good.
And I also go ahead and calculate
what it returns so that anybody who
is using it gets to know what
the function is expected to return.
I just go ahead and return total
amount and thank you message.
So this gives an idea
what this function is.
I know you'll not be writing for
each one of them, but some
companies actually will force you
to write all of this because hey,
lots of people are going to be
using your method.
So we'll just go ahead and say
we calculate a total like
this, which is chai,
which gets multiplied by 10.
So you get to know that why it
is getting multiplied by 10.
And we also have samosa
which gets multiplied by 15.
You get the point.
We'll have the consistency.
And then we simply go ahead and say
we return a, total as well as
we return a thank you message.
So thank you for visiting
chaicode.com, which
is my website name.
So there we go.
Now somebody says returns it
returns a total amount as
well as a thank you message.
Or probably we can actually say
thank you message as a string.
That is also pretty cool.
Now this actually is a nice method
although took us a little bit
more time and there's a lot more.
We can actually return the defined,
the return type that there
are more ways of playing
with that we'll surely do that.
But now that you know that, okay,
how this is all can be done.
And this is the best
example for this one.
All right.
I hope you have enjoyed this,
really detailed sessions on Python.
I'm enjoying them
teaching this whole thing.
Hope you are also
enjoying learning this.
So please do rate us and if you find
anything that hey, you should
cover more of that topic, tweet me.
I'll add this.
I want to create the best course
on the Python.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.